[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Have you ever wondered
why so many people in
the New Age movement
have had a rough time
dealing with life, finances,
and the like?
Perhaps it's because we've been
misinformed and even distracted
by promises of prosperity,
without encouraging
our deep development
as the underpinnings
to a life well-lived.
To understand the lineage of
so much conflicting information
in the self-actualization
movement,
it's a delight for me to have
our guest today, Nigel Taylor,
with us once again.
We had a fabulous
conversation a couple of weeks
ago leading up to this.
I was going to go a
different direction with you,
but it was so interesting,
this is where we are.
And we had so much
fun last time.
>>NIGEL TAYLOR: Yes we did,
and it's a pleasure to be back.
>>REGINA: So let's start.
You said, just a moment ago,
before the camera came on,
that you were giving
more thought to where
this whole lineage that
became known as the "New Age"
movement began.
>>TAYLOR: Well, if you look at
what the New Age per se means,
it is the dawning of
this new consciousness.
And the dawning of
a new consciousness,
if we actually track back,
has got different plateaus
upon which it has
reached its position.
One of the primary elements
which brought it forward
was the time of
the Rosicrucians.
And that's going back to 1612,
1616, when the Rosicrucian
manifesto came out.
And it was very secretive.
And the whole principle
behind that manifesto
was that at times of
great persecution,
there would be a way to
communicate hidden truths.
And those truths
permeated their way
through in the Age of Reason
and the Age of Enlightenment,
because it was shortly after
that that we had Descartes.
And then from Descartes
came a significant issue
of dualism, which he
never really intended
to come out of his teachings.
Because in his
second meditation,
he alluded to the fact that in
actual fact, there is only one,
and this is an illusion
in which we are dancing.
>>REGINA: See, that's
not the part we're told.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah, well, this
is-- but see, what happens,
and it's the same old story.
Where did the Age
of Reason come from?
It came from the failings of the
institutions that preceded it,
which controlled the
mystical elements of life.
And so the
Rosicrucians said, OK.
Well, let's see if we can
bring this back and make it--
it's still mystical.
Let's see if we can
reintroduce it to those
who are willing to do the work.
And so doing the work
is the primary issue.
And out of that
movement there have
been many, many developments
from the 1600s, 1700s, 1800s.
You bring yourself
right up to the--
>>REGINA: Let's say
to the 1920s and '30s.
>>TAYLOR: Well,
the 1920s and '30s,
you've got the
Theosophical movement.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>TAYLOR: With the
Theosophical movement
and the Anthroposophical
movement--
>>REGINA: Yes, Steiner.
>>TAYLOR: Those primary
movements and Steiner
were people who were actually
rational thinkers, in that they
were scientifically based.
That they were
looking at a pathway
to refine consciousness.
And there's a very
important element here.
The key is the
refining of the mind.
Now, if you look at
where we are today,
and this is a
generalization, because it's
very unfair to take a brush
and sweep it across everybody.
But there's been a move
away from the refining
of consciousness.
>>REGINA: Boy, has there been.
>>TAYLOR: And see, if you
go through like you said,
you have the mystery
schools, like BOTA.
Preceding that was
the Golden Dawn.
>>REGINA: Well, and I think of
that the Rosicrucian doctrine
was loosely based on a lot of
the ancient, ancient hermetic
doctrine.
>>TAYLOR: It goes
back-- if you go back
to the hermetic doctrine,
you can keep going.
We can push this way back.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Back to Atlantis.
>>TAYLOR: And even beyond.
>>REGINA: And beyond.
>>TAYLOR: So in this
current time frame
that we're looking
at, what we've got
is the mystery schools,
which have grown out
of the different traditions.
And then we come
to a place where
we had the development
of teachers
that were very,
very well respected
inside the American system.
Those were the likes of say,
US Anderson, Dale Carnegie.
This is how we think.
This is the power of
positive thinking.
Once the '60s came, there
was the Vietnam War.
There was the Age of Aquarius.
This is the time.
This is where the
change has come.
Everybody wanted to
change everything.
That was the field
of information
which was out there.
>>REGINA: The Leo generation.
>>TAYLOR: The Leo generation.
[CHUCKLES] Now, what happened--
and this is, again,
an observation--
was the move was away from
personal responsibility
in your journey
of life to let me
get an outcome with the easiest
possible path available.
So rather than
necessarily saying,
there's a law of attraction.
All right?
Now, the law of
attraction-- which
became very big with "The
Secret," et cetera-- the law
of attraction is, OK, fine.
If I put this thought out,
I would attract to me,
and I will walk
into this reality.
That's fine.
But the very foundations of
what it was actually all about
was ripped away by the desire
and by the need, if you will,
by some elements in
the community that
wanted to teach this.
To show people
you could actually
create miracles
inside the dream.
But the real issue
is, if you create
an outcome inside this
dream which we live,
there are always consequences.
There are always going
to be ramifications
for the way in which
you use consciousness.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And most of those miracles
that we were promised actually
did not manifest in
most people's lives.
>>TAYLOR: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: I mean, the proof is
in the pudding, as they say.
And yet, people would
still buy the books,
go to the conferences,
spend millions of dollars,
collectively.
>>TAYLOR: Well, let me share
a lesson that I encountered
very early in the piece.
Way back when I started
teaching these principles,
I had a gentleman
who went through.
And I had taught the very
foundations of consciousness,
as I understood it
at that time in which
I taught it, which I'm happy
to say has considerably
moved, and therefore,
has taught me a lesson.
But this gentleman
came in, and he
went through the whole
training and everything we did.
It went for five days.
It was pretty intense.
And then, I'm guessing it was
probably about six months,
a year later.
He turned up, and he
said, I've got this idea.
I thought, great.
Share it with me.
What is it?
And he shared this
goal, if you will,
that the largest piece of jade
which existed on the planet,
he was going to actually
convince the owner of this, who
he didn't know and had
no direct connections to,
to actually sell
it, and he would
make some huge sum of
commission on the sale of that.
And I asked him, I
said, well, how exactly
are you going to do that?
And he said, well,
I'm visualizing.
I'm meditating.
I'm believing and I'm affirming.
You think it'll
happen, won't it?
And I said, I can't
say that that's
the thing I would be doing.
And he said, well,
I believe, and I'm
going to make it happen.
Belief, desire, expectancy.
Well, I saw him, I guess, I'm
going to say a year later.
It might have been a
bit-- he lost everything.
He lost everything.
And I looked at that
relative to myself.
And I thought, what
did I communicate
that would in any way
have led him to believe
that all he needed to do
was go inside, visualize,
imagine, project,
desire, believe,
and then bring this
reality to himself.
Now, I had to take stock of
my own part to play in this.
Because as a teacher-- and
this is the very essence--
as a teacher, we are totally
responsible for everything
we teach.
And if we do not accept
that responsibility,
my own personal
belief-- doesn't mean
to say it's true-- my
own personal belief is
we will pay a price in
our own soul's journey
for having misled people into
a place where they receive,
as a result of them placing
their power in our own hands,
which is what they
tend to do, that there
is a price that will be paid.
Now, I looked at that,
and I learned a lesson.
And I think it was a blessing
to learn the lesson very early.
That the judgment
and guidance that
is given in any area
of consciousness
has to be from the authenticity
of your own experience.
And so this is where we go
back to the Rosicrucians.
And we go back to
the earlier teachers,
and we go back to the
Egyptian traditions.
You go back to the Vedas.
It doesn't matter.
We must always be in that
authentic point of truth
in order to walk through the
door and say to somebody, let
me tune in closely with you.
Let me become one with you,
so that when I say something
to you, it is a truth.
Not just for me,
but it's because I
know exactly where you are
in your heart and your soul.
You know, story time.
I've got this thought going on.
You've got to stop me.
You know I get carried away.
>>REGINA: Oh, no.
No.
I love it.
Tell the story.
>>TAYLOR: Well, this goes back.
Neruda, who was one
of the great sages
of the Brahmanic
tradition, Neruda's
like this beautiful sage, and
he's in dialogue with the Lord.
And the Lord, by definition,
being the absolute principle.
The Lord says to him,
Neruda, you've travelled all.
You've been everywhere.
You've seen all dimensions.
You've seen every locale,
you've seen every universe.
You've seen everything.
So tell me, out of
everything you've seen,
what's the greatest of all?
Is it the Earth?
Is the water?
Is it the fire?
Is it the spirit?
Air?
He said, what is greatest?
And Neruda says, this is
a question for the Lord,
I better get this right.
So he thinks.
And he says, it's
got to be the Earth.
And he says, because the Earth
is solid, and it's magnificent,
and it's just got
so much substance.
And the Lord says, mm.
He said, but what
about the water?
He said, water covers
75% of the Earth.
He said, isn't that
something which
would make it slightly better?
He said, think about it.
And so Neruda goes, yeah, yeah.
He said, you're right.
He said, I have to agree.
That which covers has
to be greater than that
which is being covered.
And the Lord says,
well, Neruda, he said,
so let me ask you this.
He said, if that's
the case, he said,
there was a sage that
came down to the Earth
when the demons hid in
the bottom of the ocean,
many, many, many,
many moons ago.
And he said, he drank
all of the ocean.
The whole lot.
He said, so let me ask you this.
Who would be the best,
the most profound?
Would it be the
ocean, or would it
be the one that drinks of
the ocean, the whole lot?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
He says, no doubt.
He said, it's got to be the
one that drinks of the ocean.
And so he said,
well, the Lord says,
Neruda, let me just continue
this, if you don't mind.
He said, because
there was a point when
that particular
sage took his leave,
went back into the heavens.
He became a star, and
he filled with light.
And he says, but
he was, in the sky,
at night time, just a tiny dot.
He said, so what's the biggest?
What's the best?
What's the most profound?
Is it the sage, which is just
a tiny dot in the night sky,
or is it the sky, which
involves everything?
And so Neruda said, oh, he
said, Lord, you got me on this.
He says, it's got to be the sky.
He said, very well Neruda.
If that's the case,
well, what about this?
There was a time when
the Lord actually
reincarnated on the planet.
And he said, came
down as a dwarf,
on one foot, took over the
entire earth, water, fire,
everything.
Covered the whole lot.
He said, so the
sky went with it.
So which is biggest?
Which is best?
Which is greatest?
He goes, all right.
Final, final answer.
He said, I know it's
going to be the Lord.
He said, the Lord has
to be the greatest.
Isn't that-- there's
no way out of this.
The Lord's the greatest, because
his infinite expense covers
everything.
The Lord looks at him and says,
but Neruda, one last question.
And he says, yes, my Lord.
What is it?
He said, which
would be greatest?
He said, would it be
the devotee of love that
holds the Lord locked,
imprisoned in his heart,
or would it be the Lord who's
in the heart, locked away,
can't get out.
He said, you tell me.
He said, then it has
to be the devotee.
And the point which
we make here is
that all of the mystery
traditions, every one of them,
is about the heart.
It's not about the mind.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
And now, we have a lot
to filter through then,
so people that are
watching this, many of whom
have been on these paths a
long time, some who are new,
can see themselves.
And we can see a
portrait of what
we've been talked into a bit.
I don't know how else to put it.
But now, do you mind if we
go back in a linear-- use
our minds and go
back in a linear way?
Let's go back to
NLP in the '80s.
You brought that up when we
were talking on the phone
a couple weeks ago.
Now, how did-- most people have
heard of NLP, Neuro Linguistic
Programming.
How did that start all of this?
What was its role to play?
>>TAYLOR: Well, my
understanding-- and this
doesn't mean to say it's
absolute-- my understanding is
a lot of it came from the
work of Grinder and Bandler
doing the research.
And a lot of their
understandings
came from Milton Erickson.
Now, Milton Erickson was one of
the truly great men and women
who were involved in the
research of human mind
from the perspective of
hypnosis and getting people
to assume a shifting
state of consciousness,
for purposes, primarily,
of helping that person.
Walk into a place where they
could leave behind phobias
and any number of things.
Now, those two guys did an
enormous amount of work.
They presented
phenomenal material,
which then literally became,
I believe, if I'm right,
it became very popular, not
only in their teachings,
but also, I think Anthony
Robbins probably made it.
He'd have a slightly
different turn to it.
But this, then,
everybody went out.
And every second program
was integrating NLP
as part of the overall training
for mind and for consciousness.
Is it wrong?
No.
The question becomes a game.
What is the objective
of introducing language
for the purposes of
accessing a change of state?
Is it, and here's
the question, is it
to help a person move into
a space of deeper truth,
or is it to help them achieve
a goal for which they're not
authentically aligned
in their own truth?
Now--
>>REGINA: Which is the hallmark
of a lot of New Age doctrines.
>>TAYLOR: It has been.
>>REGINA: Yes.
A lot of it is also used
to manipulate people.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
We're going to go there.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah.
Manipulation and we see it.
It's involved in political
speech all the time,
and that's part of the mass
cultural hypnosis, which
we spoke of last time
we were together.
But the potency and
the power of language,
and the manner in which
it is used, is-- again,
a personal perception-- is
actually keeping people away
from their heart.
Because getting into
that space of the heart
is literally where
the entire structure,
all the work on the
mystical tradition,
has its roots and origins.
Let me just give you-- if I
can give you an example, here.
The tradition of
Kabbalah or Kabbala--
however people like
to pronounce it-- it's
been associated for
a long, long time
with the Jewish
mystical tradition.
However, looking at the
principle of the word Kabbalah,
it means to receive.
It means to become open,
to become receptive to,
to integrate and become aware
of that which who we are.
Now, you can only
receive in relationship
to that which is projecting.
If you look in the
Kabbalistic projections,
you will see that we have
this whole body of work where
we speak of, in the
Western tradition, God,
in a masculine sense.
In a masculine sense.
And one of the
reasons that comes out
is because God is
actually, by definition,
regardless of how we define
God, is the projecting force,
and we, in our space,
are the receiving.
So we're the feminine,
and we're receiving
this projective energy.
But then it's upon us
to become the living God
and to project back.
So the whole concept
of understanding mind
is to go into a space
where we can rationalize,
where we can refine, the way
in which we use our mind.
Cut away all the dross
and get to a space
where words are meaningful,
processes are unlocking
the heart, and where,
at the end of the day,
that which is revealed is the
truth and the authenticity
of who we are as a
being of pure love.
Let me give you an example
of what I mean by this.
In the blue book, in
"Power Before Thought,"
I spoke about a term which,
if people work through those
principles in the book, it is
to take them to a place which
the Sanskrit tradition
calls bhava, B-H-A-V-A.
And bhava is-- it's not
even unconditional love.
It's a love which is so
profound, so deep, so rich,
that if you try to express it,
you've lost it immediately.
Let me talk about how
you recognize this.
Am I on target for where you--
>>REGINA: Yeah, no.
It's fine.
I'll take you back this
other place in a bit.
Go ahead.
>>TAYLOR: But the
principle of bhava
is that you've done the
work through the refinement
of your mind by monitoring
your thoughts in such a way
that you're heading
always into the heart.
Nothing but nothing but
nothing will ever stop you
from getting to the heart.
Now, the way in which you'd
recognize a person who's
reached that is that if
they're actually with somebody,
you will often sense, and you
will experience a rich taste
in your mouth or a smell,
a fragrance of rose
or gardenia or jasmine.
It is because they are
literally the nectar of love.
They have become
that nectar of love,
and they've worked
so hard to refine
their mind that they have
no attachments to anything.
They have no desire to
hold onto any belief.
They will protect their
mind in no way whatsoever.
They work with the understanding
that everything is divine;
the trees, the sun, the
moon, everything is divine.
Now, you come back to where
we started our conversation.
Our conversation is how did we
get into this New Age path--
>>REGINA: That's what
I was going to say.
We have two parallel
conversations.
That's where we're going.
Let's talk about
where we've been.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah.
So how did we get here?
We cut ourselves off from love.
>>REGINA: OK.
And let's-- OK.
Now, can we go back
to that timeline
of the ways in
which we did this?
The various ways in which the
movements we participated in,
including yourself, did
this, so we can see, where
did these little cuts happen?
Another thing you were
talking about when
we talked before was about the
self-actualization movement
in the '90s really ended up
to be more about manipulation.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah, yeah.
And when we look at where these
programs-- and I'm talking
again in a broad sense--
the programs, very much,
are about personal power.
Now--
>>REGINA: Or personal gain.
>>TAYLOR: Or personal gain.
There was a point at
which people really
moved away from that.
When we were in the
'60s, they moved away.
They wanted to make
this the planet which
was one, which was joyful,
it was the Garden of Eden, et
cetera.
But the more we had a shift
into economic despair,
economic circumstances which
were tough or challenging,
that's when people
found themselves
going to these programs,
attending programs which
were meant to be quick fixes.
Now, that meant you
could do self-hypnosis,
you could do affirmation,
you could do visualization,
you could do all of this stuff.
You could do your NRP.
There were so many
of these programs--
>>REGINA: Often
for monetary gain,
because people were frightened.
>>TAYLOR: Exactly.
And people will give a lot
of money, a lot of money,
in order to get
what they think will
be the final outcome, which
will be they will satisfy
their needs in such a way
that they'll be able to--
and this is very sad--
but be able to manipulate
the outcomes in their
life by using their mind.
It doesn't work that way.
>>REGINA: Yes, OK.
Now, let's go further
down that rabbit hole.
Now, Queensland.
All right?
Queensland.
You said that's kind
of like the Bible Belt.
Let's talk about Queensland.
What was given birth to there?
We're going to move
ourself up through the time
of the early 2000s.
You can stop along
the '90s if you want.
And into "The Secret."
>>TAYLOR: Well, let's
think about some
of the different pathways
that are involved here.
There are a few people that
have been what I would consider
to be pioneers in the field.
Now, one of which was
going to '60s, '70s,
'80s, '90s, and then
on to 2000 plus.
Jose Silva-- and I knew
Jose Silva personally.
>>REGINA: The Silva method.
>>TAYLOR: The Silva method.
Jose was what I consider to
be a very straightforward,
a simple man.
Not in a negative sense,
but a simple man in that he
saw what he was doing,
and he endeavored
to help make the place better.
Right?
Many, many people-- his
objective was, what he said
was this.
This was way back in the '60s.
He said, I want to make
everybody a Silva instructor.
Now, 7 billion or
6 billion people
on the planet,
which means nobody
needs to have anybody teach them
anything, because everybody is.
Well, from that,
many, many people
who are in the New Age movement
had their roots and origins.
They started there.
But if you're going
to start somewhere,
you've got to break away
in order to be different.
And if you're going to
break away to be different,
you can't take the exact
program and copy it.
So what happens is--
>>REGINA: Right.
You take pieces out of it.
>>TAYLOR: You take a piece
of this and a piece of that.
And what happens is, you
get these break aways.
So it's like you go back
to the original scriptures.
The original scriptures.
Going back to say, Christ,
or going back to the Vedas,
et cetera.
How many masters
have broken away
along the path to get to
the point where you've got
I don't know how many
denominations in Christianity,
for instance.
Now, if you just took, for
instance, Jose and what
he gave, or you took the
works of Robert Monroe, who
was another-- what
I personally-- I
found him to be one
of the people who
was authentic and genuine.
I'm going to tell you why.
I sat with Robert Monroe back
in 1992, and he would have been,
I'm guessing about
79 at that point.
Close.
And he had this shine
and sparkle in his eyes
the moment anybody
shared anything,
because he was learning every
single moment of his life.
And he had nothing
set rock standard.
He wanted people
to grow and evolve.
But out of his movement came
all of the different folks
who broke away.
Now, every time
there is a breakaway,
you've got to justify
your existence.
Now, you can justify
your existence
if there is authenticity
in your soul
and something is
burning through you
that you need to present without
a desire for a huge amount
of compensation and also
with the responsibility
that whatever you
say to the person,
you're going to wear
the consequences.
Now, that took a real dive.
Again, this is me personally.
That took a real dive
when we simplified things.
And we simplified
things in the '90s
and into the 2000s, when we
took all of this material which
had been available, a lot
of biblical, and a lot of it
from way back.
And we said, guys,
there's an easy way.
It's all about attraction.
>>REGINA: Yeah, we all liked
hearing that at the time.
>>TAYLOR: It's all about
the law of attraction.
Now, is there a
law of attraction?
Yes there is.
Absolutely.
I mean, you know it.
I know it.
We experience it.
But it's not the only law.
And it is part of the journey.
But if we actually make
that the foundation stone,
we've got to build on that.
And if we haven't looked
underneath to see where
it comes from, what
we're starting here,
without our
foundation, to build,
a series of principles
and techniques
which are only rotating
around this idea
that put the thought out,
manifest and bring it back
into your life.
>>REGINA: And how
did that come to be?
I mean, that's
from your country.
>>TAYLOR: Yes.
Well, "The Secret,"
to my knowledge,
manifested itself
out of Queensland
in the eastern
states of Australia.
Now, I love my country.
Australia's a beautiful country.
But Queensland has
a very strong area--
well actually, not
just Queensland.
You come down the
South West coast.
There is a strong alternative
patch, if you will,
of folks who are
prepared to explore,
and they're prepared to
put themselves on the line.
But once something is seen--
I mean, many years ago, back
in Australia, there
came from Queensland
a whole series of
movements across Australia,
where different
classes would come
in saying to West Australia
or South Australia.
And what they would
be is they would
be outgrowths of something
that had previously
been taught by another person.
In other words,
there's good marketing.
And good marketing
is literally, now,
what a lot of the
New Agers are about.
>>REGINA: Oh, absolutely.
>>TAYLOR: And the principle
of the good marketing, it
actually uses
manipulation to get
people to come on board,
to take a direction which
may not necessarily
be in their interest.
>>REGINA: So why was "The
Secret" such a phenomenal event
at the time?
>>TAYLOR: Fear.
>>REGINA: Fear.
Again.
My perception.
There's a longing in people
to find their purpose.
To find their meaning.
To accomplish what they
came to this planet to do.
And it's a very genuine longing.
When I say fear, it's like one
of the great mystical teachings
says, death is initiation.
Initiation is death.
We have to walk
through our life,
and it is a pathway of
self transformation.
Self transformation comes
by confronting who we are.
What we are.
The fear of not
knowing who we are.
Having a meaningful existence.
Having a purposeful existence.
Reaching that point
where we realize
that we've made a
difference on this planet.
As people move through life, in
the early years, in their 20s
and maybe 30s, it's like, OK.
How am I going to
change the world?
Oh, there's a mind
training program.
Let me do it.
And then they'll get results.
They'll get great results.
And then, as they get a little
bit older, they start to think,
you know, but hey, I started
this 30, 40 years ago.
Mm, have I really
found out who I am?
I know I can use my mind, and
I know I can bring results.
But does it always benefit
everybody in my life?
Have I, in my relationships,
been as positive
as I would have wanted to be?
Why did these people
maybe move on?
And so this self-assessment
is literally
about self transformation.
And when people go
to the easy path,
it is like we go back
to the Rosicrucianism,
when we started there.
That was about the work.
The work of the
mystery schools and all
the different traditions;
the Theosophists, of BOTA,
of Golden Door.
>>REGINA: These are years-long
training, life-long training.
>>TAYLOR: Eventually,
the whole thing--
it's not a type of-- If you come
in, and you come into my class,
I will convert your
life overnight.
Now, this is-- I
know that, because I
confront that every day.
Because in the world in which I
live, world in which you live,
we share the
commonality here, is
you have to tell people,
these things you will
get if you come into this room.
Now, what do I is I get caught.
It's very, very hard, because
I'm not prepared to say,
you come in here, and your world
is going to be so different.
What I am prepared to
say is, if you come in,
we're going to do some work.
We're going to
explore some ideas.
We're going to have
deep, interplaying work,
and then, when you leave here,
your life will be different.
But I can't guarantee
when you leave here,
your life is going
to be fantastic.
>>REGINA: Or better.
>>TAYLOR: It may actually be a
lot worse because you met me.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>TAYLOR: I mean, I met
myself, and I-- but this
is a possibility.
>>REGINA: But that's
the part of-- that's
the point of deep exploration.
Which again, going back to the
phenomenon in the early 2000s,
with "The Secret," there
wasn't any depth on--
>>TAYLOR: No.
And if you actually look,
there is a whole movement now.
Regina-- my Regina.
My wife, Regina--
>>REGINA: Yes,
your wife, Regina.
>>TAYLOR: My wife Regina--
>>REGINA: Two in the same room.
>>TAYLOR: --made a comment
to me the other day,
and I thought it
was very telling.
Because we've written
a few books at a time.
The first one was 650 pages, the
second one was about 650 pages.
The next one was 460 pages.
The last one was-- this
one was 170, and the 170--
>>REGINA: This one's going
to be five. [CHUCKLES]
>>TAYLOR: Well, no.
What she said, she was
talking to someone,
and she reflected back to me.
She said, have you
noticed how we've
gone 640 all the way down?
Then we came down to an
article of three pages.
Then we came down to a page.
Then we came down
to a paragraph.
Then we came down to a sentence.
Then we came down to
a few power words.
Then we came down to a key word.
Then we came down to a
hash tag and an emoticon.
She said, now, this is
how we are opening up
levels of consciousness.
She said, but what
level are we working at?
She said, what level
are we working at
to actually be working
with such very, very
basic-- it's a new language.
It's a new language.
It's a new level
of consciousness,
and it has skipped all
of the foundations.
It's gone.
>>REGINA: All of the
foundations, yes.
OK.
So on that, one
of the modalities
that has been used over
the last 20, 30 years,
is the notion of-- and I'm going
to use this as an example--
a vision board.
So this is really key in
"The Secret" and a lot
of the different
courses and teachings,
is you have your vision board.
And there are different
ways to go about that.
You choose your
images, your desires.
You put everything
on your board.
You look at it, and everything
happens, and you live in bliss.
Now, that's something
I did, I started
doing maybe 25 years ago or so.
I thought, oh, this is fun.
A vision board.
And I started watching what
happened through the years,
because every New Year's,
I would have a vision board
party.
So everybody would
bring their magazines,
have a glass of
champagne, and we'd
start putting our
vision boards together.
There were a couple
things about it,
and I would like you
to key in on the "why"
for behind what I'm saying.
One thing I would
have people say is,
don't think about what you want.
Don't think about
your desires when
you go through these images.
Have a glass of champagne and
go lightly and quickly through.
And if your gut says
yes, just tear it.
It doesn't matter what
it is, if it's a word,
or if it's an image.
But just only listen to the gut.
Boom.
Not the mind.
And by the end of it, you
end up with a portrait
of your subconscious desire.
Now, when done that way, it was
pretty amazing how much of what
was pinned onto that
board would occur in life.
When people were using
their minds to override it,
I need more money, I want to
have a massive, big house,
and they'd tear those
images out using their mind,
very little would
manifest on those boards.
Now, let's talk about-- and
just using that as an example--
the difference between listening
to a subconscious directive
versus these desperate desires
or wants or what we think
are needs.
And in that, as
you're answering that,
tell us the story of the woman
who said she wanted $10 million
in a couple months.
I love that story.
Because it gives you a lot to
work with there to explain why
does one way of doing it
work and the other doesn't.
>>TAYLOR: Well
again, in a nutshell,
it comes back to
authenticity of self.
It comes back to
understanding desire and what
desires we hold, at what level
of our being we hold them,
why we are pursuing
them in the first place.
Now, I'll give you a couple
of examples to try and put
this in perspective.
My mother, and she's
passed, but bless her.
She actually had
a very good life,
but she had a challenging life.
Because from a very,
very early age,
she was literally
psychic in every way.
She saw, she knew,
she knew everything.
This resulted in
her having a series
of breakdowns and electric shock
treatment and drug treatments.
I spent the better
part of my childhood
going to institutions,
where I would see people
having electric shock treatment
and having drug treatment.
I saw her many times
when I was a kid.
I would go every Friday
to these hospitals,
where the-- what's the word?
The patients.
There's got to be
a better world.
But people who were
in there for reasons
that weren't of
their own making,
necessarily, would get together,
and they'd have a dance.
And I would dance
with these people.
And there's my mother,
lost, in a void,
because she had
been reprogrammed
by the use of drugs and
electroshock treatment.
Now, the reason
I mention that is
because she had a
very powerful mind,
and she had a wonderful heart.
And what happened was,
she came from a base
of fear, which is
why I mentioned fear
in the beginning.
She always had a fear
that she simply wouldn't
have what was necessary.
And that went back to the
wartime, the childhood wartime
and the loss of someone
she loved in the war.
Now, when I step
forward in time,
she ended up coming to one of
my programs in the early years.
So she's sitting
there, all proud,
the way mothers do what they do.
And she suddenly
gets it in her mind
that if I use what
he's saying, I might
be able to get some results.
So she decides she's going
to work with her mind
to bring about some results.
Well, she'd already proven that
she had a very powerful mind,
because she took herself
down the path of great pain
and suffering.
So one day, she
decides she's going
to go in for a competition.
So she goes in for
this competition,
and it's for a trip around
Australia on a cruise ship,
and it's all expenses paid.
Done up.
She's in the shopping center,
this is going back to the time
when you didn't have
the internet and that.
And she's right at the back.
And she's-- you've got
to be present to win.
So she's standing back, and
the guy's announcing it.
She couldn't hear anything.
So she's thinking, well, all
these people are missing out.
I mean, I can't
hear, so they can't.
So she goes forward after
the second name's been drawn.
And she says, excuse me.
She said, dear, nobody
can hear what's going on.
He said, I apologize.
So as she turns around, he
goes, Mrs. Taylor of Willagee.
And she goes, oh, that's me.
So she goes around.
She opens-- so she wins,
and she gets this trip.
Now, wait for this.
She then proceeds to win,
because she won that one thing,
she won the lottery.
Her name was called
out as the viewer
on "The Wheel of Fortune,"
and she won $30,000 on that.
She won a caravan.
She won a trip to America.
She won-- and it went
from one to the other.
Now, all of a sudden,
everything stopped.
And she went into a hole.
And what happened for
everything to come to a halt
was my father got ill.
And when she thought she
was going to lose him,
every fear she had ever
had rose to the surface,
and then everything she
had just left her, apart
from her fear and her husband,
who was ailing at the time.
So she went through.
She did all the
different things.
She proved it could work.
But then, at the time
of the greatest need,
the point where she was,
was the deepest issue,
which was the fear of the
loss of love, rose up.
It canceled everything else out.
All the joy, all the
fear, of all the desires
and all the attachments,
which she deserved.
They meant nothing, because
the one thing she really wanted
was love, and she did
not want to lose it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And that was the point
I was getting to,
that authentic part of it.
Back with people putting
their images on their board.
There's I need this.
I need that.
Oh gosh, I need a new sink.
OK.
I'll put a sink on there.
No, need, need.
All that was fear driven.
These never-- and "The Secret"
didn't-- and just using "The
Secret" again, it didn't
differentiate these mindsets.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah.
Because it's the old story.
Be careful what you ask for,
because you're going to get it.
And what you tend
to get-- see, when
we were in our conversation, and
this is in context of where you
are here, is that the principle
of working with consciousness
is that we have moved from
a model of mechanistic,
in other words, the
random god force, which
has got no type of life in
it, into one of understanding
the implicate order
which underlies
all of the laws of
the entire cosmos.
Now, what I would
say to you is this--
>>REGINA: Without
going all Bohm on us,
just give us what you mean.
>>TAYLOR: What I
suggest to you is this.
Is that the whole of creation is
based upon a fabric of law that
works fundamentally,
according to very, very, very
deterministic,
deterministic principles.
We will not know the outcome.
But the outcome is
already determined,
because the
conditions of the law
are such that they will always
respond in infinite ways
according to the principle
of harmony and balance.
Harmony and balance is
the fundamental principle
on which the implicate
order-- it's not chaos.
It's not any of this.
It's always going to
take us back to harmony.
So when we look at
vision boarding,
and we would look at putting
things on the board--
>>REGINA: Talk
about the lady who
you were talking with that
said, I want $10 million.
>>TAYLOR: OK.
So some time ago, this
lady was sitting next to me
in a program.
I was there participating
as a speaker.
And the speaker at the
time said, would you
share with people whatever your
goals, et cetera, would be.
Now, I don't know even
if I shared a goal.
And there's a reason
for that, and I'll
explain that afterwards.
But she turned to
me, and she said,
I'm going to manifest $10
million by the end of the year.
That gave her around about
four months or five months.
>>REGINA: And she was
broke at the moment?
>>TAYLOR: You're coming from a
base of being basically broke.
Now, my feedback
after the event, this
wasn't a program I was running.
But my feedback after the event
was that she went further down
the hole afterwards.
Because you see,
you can't actually
tell some folk, honey,
bear with me on this.
How deeply do you understand
the principles of consciousness
that you're going
to bring this in?
Now, she believed that there
was a system and a process.
But it wasn't even
a matter of belief.
It was that she had
grasped hold of something
without the foundation.
And if I do this and
this, it's got to happen,
because the law
says it will happen.
And it didn't happen.
And that was another
life which went off
down the track into--
well, I can't say oblivion.
But see, that's where
the lessons come in.
And this is one of the beauties.
When you started
our conversation,
your point was, if I
recall rightly, you said,
all these people that
are involved in New Age,
I'm involved in it.
You're involved in it.
How come so many people's
lives are a mess?
How come--
>>REGINA: Not very functional.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah, not
very functional.
And one of the reasons
is quite simply
that we don't look at--
even by doing things.
Let's say we took everything
that's given in "The Secret"
and in vision boarding
and at face value,
and saying, this is
really good stuff.
Which it has got great
merit in the right context.
In the right context.
But let's say that we work
with those principles.
If the principles
do not give us what
we want, and we end up
with say, a divorce,
or we end up in a car accident,
because we're so upset--
>>REGINA: That we lose our job?
>>TAYLOR: We've lost our job,
or we got sick or something.
That's the door which all of
the great mystery traditions
said walk through.
Because if you walk through that
door, that is your initiation.
That is your death.
And when you have
that death, that
is when the light will come, and
then you will look at who are,
and you will realize you
didn't want any of the stuff
you put on the board
in the first instance.
What you wanted, to
walk through that door.
And when you walk
through that door,
that is exactly what you wanted.
>>REGINA: So the naivete that
made a person-- took them
down that road to show up at the
conference in the first place,
with the idea, I
need $10 million--
I'm going to make $10 million
in the next four months.
It's going to come to me.
That's extreme naivete.
>>TAYLOR: Or, or there is
a distinct possibility,
and I put this in context
of our first discussion,
that a lot of it is the mass
cultural hypnosis of our times.
>>REGINA: We're going to go
into that in just a minute.
But let's say the average
person is naive enough
to believe that, OK.
If I just think
about it every day,
I'm going to have $10 million
in four months, not knowing
that the acquisition of money
is yet another skill set that
has been groomed by people
that have a lot of money,
over perhaps lifetimes, to learn
to amass that kind of money.
Without any of even those
kinds of basic underpinnings
on a karmic level,
it's native to think
that's going to happen.
So I'm going to just--
for the most part--
put it in the
category of naivete.
But that very naivete, as
you're saying, is the gift.
>>TAYLOR: Yes.
>>REGINA: Because that naivete
leads to the broken heart,
the disappointment takes
us through the door
to our actual growth in the
beginning of establishing what
is our authentic self and path.
Know thyself.
>>TAYLOR: Yes.
Yes.
Exactly.
>>REGINA: So it's not wasted.
>>TAYLOR: No.
No.
>>REGINA: Unless you just
go off, and disappointed,
and do something-- nothing.
>>TAYLOR: No.
Look, look.
I mean, if-- I'm sure
we're both the same.
We've probably explored
so many different things.
I have had teachers and teachers
and teachers and teachers,
and I would not be
in my own position
if I hadn't have had teachers
who I greatly revered
and teachers who I
wanted to shy away from,
because they were some
of the best teachers.
Some of the ones that in an--
and by the way, in saying this,
I'm not suggesting for one
second I know the answers.
What I'm saying is
these are observations
that have been made.
But some of the teachers who
have told me to do things
have pushed other buttons which
have forced me maybe to get
upset with myself,
because I'm upset
with what they told me to do.
And that forces me
to go somewhere else
to find my answers.
So they all, every
single one of them,
serves a purpose,
and a very good one.
>>REGINA: Yes.
But now, let's go
on another track
which you just alluded
to a moment ago, the mass
cultural hypnosis.
Do you think there have been
movements and teachers placed,
or who have placed themselves,
or in tandem with perhaps
shadowy organizations
and whatnot,
in place to literally
distract people
from their own
potential power in life
through the New Age movement?
>>TAYLOR: I believe-- and again,
this is a perception of my own.
I believe that is so.
That there are-- if we took
it in context of the Bible
teachings, and I'm not
a biblical scholar.
But if we took it in context
of the Bible's teachings,
it's like there would be
prophets and false prophets,
et cetera, et cetera.
Now, I mean, for a lot of
folks who follow very, very
strongly in the Christian
faith, they see,
these guys are all
teaching, including me.
Like you'd be one of the
worst, because you've got the--
>>REGINA: Yes, I would be.
>>TAYLOR: But the
answer to that is yes.
And at the same time, even
if they are leading people
down the track of
false teaching,
what they're doing
is taking a mess
down the track of
false teaching,
so that the mask can go through
that portal of initiation.
Because--
>>REGINA: As we were
speaking about a moment ago.
>>TAYLOR: It just
means that where
we are at this moment in time,
in this grand cycle, if you
will, of unfolding, is
opening a door to a higher
level of consciousness
which can only
come when enough people
walk through that portal.
So some of these teachers, some
of these relatively planted
negative teachers, they're
actually serving the light.
>>REGINA: And that's the
silver lining of it all.
How would you say we
would recognize that kind
of teaching, for example?
What would a common
thread of messages
be in what you would
consider to be more a plant.
Someone who is misguiding
or misinforming us.
>>TAYLOR: I guess one
of two primary options.
One is where there is an
excessive play on fear,
with the potential to
resolve all issues, being
made very clear.
You do this, you
will get answers.
And come with me.
And then people get caught
up in mind connectivity,
because-- let me
give you an example,
and I'll come to the
second one in a moment.
But by example, we have what are
called these mind vibrations,
thought lines, if you
will, which make up part
of who we are and what we are.
Now, the average human
being, and I place myself
in that area, but the
average human being
has got infinite
type of receptors,
if you will, out, picking up
things like anger and hurt
and pain and
frustration, et cetera.
The sage, the
great master being,
the one who sits in
lava, the one who
is that emirate, who is
the one of the heart,
has spent perhaps many
lifetimes, but at least
this lifetime, learning to
recognize that not one of those
has any reality in
directing them in this life.
So if a sage, for
instance, is sitting down,
he's got his head on a
rock, and he's meditating,
and he's completely unaffected
by the rain and the thunder
and the lightning, and a
child comes past and says,
look at that silly old fool.
He can't even afford a pillow.
And if he so much as stirs,
and he sniffles or anything,
that concentration
is such that he
has realized that that
mind impression was there,
and he deals with it.
He releases it.
And he goes back, and
he says thank you.
Over here, on the other
hand, someone comes along,
and the mind
impression-- someone
makes you angry or something.
Now, the sage is
going to get scorned.
OK.
Thank you for the lesson.
What we do is we have so
many of the impressions,
because we haven't sought
to refine the mind.
What we do is we pull upon
our reserve, our resources,
bring them all up, and then we
project them out to the point
where somebody else is
then on the receiving
end of our unresolved,
unrefined mind.
So when a person comes
along and says to us, OK.
Here's all your fears,
here's the solutions.
So what we do is we've
got these thought lines--
>>REGINA: We have
the answer for you.
>>TAYLOR: And so what happens
is, we go there, because these
thought lines take us there.
We want it.
Then, once we're in there,
there are other thought lines,
like, follow me.
Hey, follow me.
>>REGINA: Any one that let
the guru thing going on it.
Yeah.
>>TAYLOR: That's right.
And so therefore, a lot of
people give themselves over.
Now, if you look at people
giving themselves over,
what we do is we hand over
personal responsibility.
Now, the whole principle of
all the different traditions
which led up to
the New Age, which
is where it got
watered down, was
you take personal responsibility
by walking through the door.
Because this is about
self transformation
and getting to know who you are.
Now, if we look at the mess of
people who may have gone across
to say, one person, one
teacher-- doesn't matter--
who cannot sit in that space
like the little old sage,
and so has got their own stuff
going on, and they give power
over, is there any wonder, at
this moment in time on this
planet, that we have people
complaining about issues which
are very valid, about
vaccination, is it right,
is it wrong?
Compulsory vaccination.
About the control of
banks and about all
of the different
issues where we are
handing over power at a
personal level to one person.
We have literally handed
over all our power,
and these people
are our surrogates.
And they're saying
to us, I'm going
to take you through the portal.
If you won't go
as an individual,
I will collectively take
this group of people
through the planet.
Which brings us to all
of the great epics.
All of the great epics.
Each one of the demons
in the great epics
always ended up
getting rewarded.
They always ended
up getting rewarded.
So these characters who
may be the dark characters
are always going to get
rewarded for their working,
taking people to the light.
So all these characters which
are on the planet today,
I don't care who they are,
It's like these ones are still
taking us to the light.
That's why when we speak about
God, in any form, in any place,
in any tradition,
it's the omniscient,
omnipotent, omnipresent.
In other words, it's not
that's God and this is not.
These little demons
are doing their work.
We've got our own demons.
>>REGINA: So maybe what
has been underestimated,
that knowingness, that
path toward refinement,
is innate within our own beings.
We're going to stumble
upon it sooner or later,
even if it takes a
challenge and some rather
destructive behavior along
the way to catapult us back
into our true--
>>TAYLOR: Well, you hit
the nail on the head.
Man, know thyself.
Woman, know thyself.
>>REGINA: Yeah, know thyself.
>>TAYLOR: Here's a classic,
because this goes back
to the [INAUDIBLE] tradition.
Now, we don't have any graphics
here, but many of your viewers
would have heard of
the tree of life.
Now, the tree of
life is a glyph,
for the want of a
better term, and it's
got 10 primary what
are called sephirot.
And these are pure
energy centers,
and there are literally
a total of 22 paths
connecting these 10 centers.
Now, if anyone looks
at this tree of life,
it is not symmetrical.
In other words, the center
channel has dropped down,
and what we've got is a series
of energy centers going up.
But there is one
hidden energy center.
And that hidden energy center
is one which is called Da'at.
D-A-A-T. Da'at in
Hebrew means to know.
Now, it's a shadow one.
Now, if we come from the very
base on the tree of life--
and we are the tree of life.
You and I are the tree of life.
This studio in Gaiam
is the tree of life.
The state of Colorado
The United States
is the tree of life.
And we go on.
Everything is the tree of life.
The planet is the tree of life.
But what happens is, each
one of those energies
is present within us.
It brings us anger.
It brings us joy.
It brings us sadness.
It brings us peace.
So we walk this
path all the time.
This is the path of
the lone warrior.
Now, here's the way to bring
ourselves back to harmony,
is when we've got all of
these spheres connected,
and we push this one up.
And the whole thing goes up.
And what happens is,
the Christ center,
the Krishna center, the Buddha
center, right in the middle,
slaps itself right over
the hidden sephirot.
And that one, which
is dark, means
we know through the heart.
So we know through the heart.
And when we know
through the heart,
we have literally
opened the portal
to the greatest gift we'll
ever have, which is to become,
not only knowing who we are.
We have overcome the
limitations of mind,
because we've entered
into the heart.
And it is through the
heart that we actually then
are able to dismiss the control
that the mind has had over us.
>>REGINA: And then
have discernment.
And so then, if we want to start
playing with our little vision
boards and so forth, it's
being done in a different way
and in a different spirit
that may be more in alignment
with our true
selves, our Dharma.
Whatever expressions of
our truth show themselves,
we start aligning with that.
And then you can have
things start very nicely
manifesting in your life,
because it's in alignment.
You've done the work.
You know who you are.
It's in alignment with
who you are, your purpose.
And then desire, nothing
wrong with desire.
It's a beautiful fuel.
>>TAYLOR: It's a powerful fuel.
>>REGINA: It is.
>>TAYLOR: It's one--
You know, we use desire
in order to rise
to higher levels
where we can overcome desire.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And so desire-- people, I
mean, that's another thing.
Desire has been put-- really
put down as a dark force.
But there's nothing
dark about desire.
Only desire that is kind
of random for purposes
that are driven by fear.
That's not the same as
that lovely, subtle thing
that is propelling
you toward something.
>>TAYLOR: Yes, yes.
I mean, ultimately,
desire, in the grand scheme
of all of these pathways we've
addressed here, is a motive.
It is a driving energy.
But it is one that helps
us reach a place where
we can rise above it and
then go to a higher desire.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>TAYLOR: It's like,
people often say to me, how
do you-- do we have free will?
Do we have free will?
What do we do?
How do we get there?
Well, my answer
is, you absolutely
have free will,
until you realize
you don't have free will.
Because the journey there
is you have got such freedom
to do what you need
to do, to go and use
the principles of "The
Secret," the law of attraction,
to do yoga, to do whatever
is in your calling.
>>REGINA: But it's like going
out of alignment with yourself
both ways until you start
finding that aligned point.
>>TAYLOR: And then
what happens is,
the more you get to these places
and walk through this door,
then what happens is, you
walk through the door,
you're fine tuning.
You're coming like this,
and then all of a sudden,
you realize you were
never ever controlling
any of those outcomes.
They were being controlled by
the absolute principle, which
by all circumstances, you are.
So the god force within
you, the highest principle,
was always taking you there.
>>REGINA: So once
that's met, then
you can play within
these fields we're
talking about with ease
and with good result.
>>TAYLOR: It gets me
like a short story
to bring that to a point.
Because on the
vision board, right?
There is Sivananda, often told
this beautiful little story
about a teacher
sitting in his class.
And in comes this young boy.
And the teacher's saying,
this is mathematics.
And the kid's distracted.
And so the teacher says,
Enil, what's going on there?
And he says, oh, sorry.
Sorry, sir.
He said, I'm distracted.
He said, what are
you thinking about?
He said, I'm thinking
about my bull.
And he says, well, I'm sorry
you can't stay in the class
and think about your bull.
Go and sit under a tree, think
about your bull for as long
as you want.
When you've finally got
it out of your system,
then you come back.
And don't come back
until you've done it.
Seven days he's
sitting under the tree,
thinking about the bull.
At the end of seven
days, he comes back.
He gets to the classroom.
The teacher says,
are you finished?
He said, yes, I'm over it, sir.
He said, good.
Well, come in.
He said, I can't.
He said, why not?
He said, I can't get my
horns through the door.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
>>TAYLOR: And the reason
being, he had become one
with his point of focus.
Now, when you get a vision
board, when you get a vision
board, be careful,
because you're
going to become one
with the point of focus.
Make sure it's true
to your intent.
>>REGINA: Be truthful.
Exactly.
That is the point.
And we are out of time.
I mean, it's been so
enjoyable, as always.
It just flies.
>>TAYLOR: Thank you for
putting up with me. [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: I love it.
>>TAYLOR: It's a
pleasure being back here.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Thank you so much.
And we will do this again.
Thank you, Nigel.
>>TAYLOR: It would be
a privilege, thank you.
>>REGINA: To dive
deeply yourself,
you can look into
Nigel's work by reading
his most recent
book, which I have
given to many of
my friends, called
"The Power Before Thought."
To learn more about his
workshops and lectures,
you can go to nigeltaylor.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]